Hello everyone and welcome to my final senior design blog post of the semester.

This week I wanted to talk about a tool that I find very useful in our field, nmap. Nmap is a network mapping tool that can be used for a multitude of things, it is a swiss army knife if you will. First of all, it can be used for host discovery using the -Sn flag to perform ping scans without scanning for open ports. This way you can quickly scan a subnet and find out how many hosts are on it, and what IPs they are assigned. The primary function that I have used it in is to check for open ports on a machine, often for either defensive or offensive security purposes. From a defensive standpoint, it is good to know what ports you have open so you can close out any extra ports you do not need, preventing unintended access to unnecessary protocols. From an offensive perspective, you can use it for the opposite reason, to find any possible entrypoints that the administrators left open. For this purpose, you can go even deeper with nmap and find out if they misconfigured the service, by using a scan to detect if the service is running an outdated version, and if it has outdated plugins or additions. Furthermore, you can actually load up scripts in nmap using the -script-* flag. For example, you can run an nmap scan to find all vulnerabilities matching a list of CVEs on system. This can obviously be used offensively and defensively, as it allows admins to remediate any vulnerabilities that they have, and allows attackers to strike first and exploit systems before admins are aware of them. 

Overall, nmap is a very flexible and useful tool for a multitude of tasks, and is relatively important to know in the realm of IT. With that, I am closing out my blog posts for this semester, and beginning my studies for finals week.