Hello everyone, welcome back to my site, here is another little update about my life in tech.

This week for my classes, I had been focusing once again mostly on my Web Development class, where I had to continue working on an assignment that involves building a personal resume from HTML and CSS. I did end up completing that on Monday, and actually ended up learning some more about combinators in CSS. After that, I moved on to working on a lab for my Security class. It required us to create a python script from scratch that carries out a dictionary attack to crack hashes from an /etc/shadow file provided to us. I did so by using the script to split the contents of /etc/shadow into two files. One with usernames of accounts that actually have a password and can be logged into, the other file with the password hash, salt, and hashing algorithm. I then ran each hash through a for loop, which contained a for loop of each word from the wordlist, it then ran the two through python's crypt.crypt() function to get the hash. I then compared that hash to the original, and if it matched, that word is the password, if not move on to the next word until you get a match. I think this was one of the most fun assignments that has been given to me this semester. 

Outside of class, work has been slow, essentially I am working on the same things as last week. However, I have been working with a friend on a lecture for Layer 8 on web hacking. We are going to stand up a few vulnerable VMs running web servers and carry out various attacks on them. I plan to showcase how to use some tools, such as nmap, wpsscan, dirbuster, reverse PHP shells, and maybe burp suite. I will also go into the steps of the penetration testing process, and educate students on the proper steps of a successful pen test. I think it will be an exciting lecture and I am looking forward to it.

That is all for this week, check back next week for another update.