Hello everyone, welcome to the newest iteration of my Senior Design Blog.

This week was somewhat more work heavy for me, as there was not as much schoolwork for me to do, at least not in
my CIT classes. At work, there was a lot of progress we got done on a project involving the changing of many website
URLs, as well as the updating of certificates and cipher suites. A lot of this was a business thing, but also the latter
was in order to keep up with cloud security best practice. Other than that, we have been taking inventory of network
devices in our datacenter, as well as mapping out what is connected to what device. We have also been putting together
a powerpoint presentation on what we had learned at our other internships we did over the summer, and what security 
skills we can bring to the table at our company to improve our value.

For my classes, it has been mostly working on a project for my web development class. We have to make a website using
what we have learned so far, and also adding in some elements and attributes that we have not gone over yet. For the 
most part I like to think I made a good amount of progress, having laid out the shell for all of the pages and decided
on what I want to use for the elements and attributes. I have also styled it to look rather nice with CSS, which is 
something that we have only recently gone into. I plan to finish that by Tuesday.

There really has not been much else going on, it has been a slow week overall, but I believe next week will be a little
more busy hopefully. Be sure to check back next Friday for my next post.