Hello everyone, welcome to the fifth week of my weekly blog posts for my CIT 480 Senior design class!

This week was once again a little more work based than school based as far as my technical activities go. I am still working on that domain URL project at work, where we are updating old URLs that my company is phasing out, and also update the certificates and harden the cipher suites. It is still a work in progress, and we are also still working on the project to update the inventory of our data center, having made a little bit of progress on the shared diagram file that we have. Other than that, we have just been doing the generic IT ticket management activities that is expected of our job.

In school, I had been mostly focused on finishing up my web development project, which was due early in the week. I had completed my site, which was a very basic site with a basic layout, the content of which described some of the things that I liked (music, hobbies, sports...). I presented this to the class, and explained my code (HTMLS, CSS) to the class. Web development is something that I have not done in a while, probably since high school, so I actually found this to be a fun exercise. Then there was, of course, the dockerfile assignment for this class, which I had a lot of difficulty on and stayed up later working on. I finished it this morning, after finding a lot of the errors in my code. I found that the commands seem to run in what appears to be sub-containers, so some previous commands (such as directory changes) do not carry over to the next line, so to install something in a certain directory, I had to do it on the same line. Once I made those changes, everything seemed to work okay. I plan to begin work on the CIT 425 lab for cracking Unix passwords next week, since the professor just went over that process today.

That is all I have for this week, check in next Friday for a new blog post about my week.