Hello everyone, welcome to my week 6 blog post for CIT 480.

This week seemed to be another quiet one for me, at least as far as my core CIT classes goes. Most of my focus was on my web development class again, as we were assigned a project to make a personal resume out of HTML and CSS (strange, I know). A lot of my time was spent writing that up and fixing any issues I ran into. Other than that, a lot of my focus was on work, where we have actually began to start reorganizing the Visio file containing the layout and contents of all of the server racks at my work's data center. I have completed a couple of rows for that. 

Outside of work and school, things with my club and competitions have picked up. We are starting another one this weekend, and it involves signing into virtual machines that have vulnerabilities, and hardening the machines to get points. We have been training for that for a couple weeks now and are in the final stages. My club will also begin training High School Cyberpatriot students in a couple of weeks, so we have been preparing for that. Last sunday, we also did some training for the CCDC competition. We actually began creating VMs of older OS builds running older versions of certain services. We will soon be vulnerability scanned, given a score, and then given a chance to harden the machines to continually increase that score. I chose to use Fedora 28, running apache 2.1, and will begin work on that this Sunday.

Check in next week for another blog post.