Hello everyone, welcome to this weeks blog post for my CIT Senior Design class.

This week was somewhat of a busy one so I have not had much time to focus on things outside of work and school. I did, however play around with reverse and bind shells in my information security class. For those that don't know how these things work, they mostly involve using netcat to drop a bash shell over the wire between two machines. With bind shells, the target is hosting the shell, and is listening for active connections on a specific port using netcat. The user/attacker can then connect to that socket using netcat and have access to that machines shell remotely. This can be seen as both useful and convenient for some administrators, as it is fast and easy to use, but also poses a huge security risk, as anyone can connect to this unauthenticated. There are also things called reverse shells, which just go the other way around, where the target connects to the user/attacker, and upon connection executes it's own shell so that anything the user/attacker types goes into the target's shell. This is useful, as it can be used to bypass firewall ingress rules, which tend to be much stricter than egress rules.

It goes without saying that these things should NOT be used in regular production environments, as it is a glaring security flaw, and can open the gates to your network being compromised. The safe alternative is obviously using SSH, which is both encrypted and requires authentication to connect to by default. To add to the security of this, one can set up public key authentication to ensure that the host that is connecting is valid at the machine level.

It is not much, but this is what I wanted to talk about this week, as it seems interesting. Check in next week for a new blog post.