Hello everyone, and happy halloween eve, it's time for another update on my week in tech.

This week in my classes, I spent a lot of my time setting up a SecurityOnion virtual machine for my information security class. The goal was to set it up, and get it configured so I can access the web interface. I found that there was a lot of issues with the installer getting hung up on certain steps, so it actually ended up taking me much longer than I anticipated. I did end up getting it running though, however I will likely reinstall it with a GUI for the sake of the next lab (which anticipates you having the GUI). Other than that, I planned a little bit for my projects in other classes. I have several coming up, so my next weeks will likely be busy.

At my work we have been continuing inventorying everything in our data center. We just finished, but we will be gathering more information soon. We also will be moving new laptops to every employee in the company soon and moving the old ones out. This will be quite the project, as we have a small timeframe and a lot of room for issues and errors. 

Outside of school and work, my CCDC team and I have been continuing to educate high school kids on information security concepts to prepare them for their own competition. I presented to them last sunday on basic Cisco IOS commands, and showed them how to configure a basic network from scratch using packet tracer. I essentially had a firewall as a router, that passed traffic down to a switch, which was connected to several machines and one server. I showed them how to configure DHCP on this network to assign IPs to the machines.

That is it for me this week, check back next week to see what's new.