Hello everyone and welcome to this weeks blog post for my Senior Design class.

This week was a pretty quiet one for me, at least as far as my CIT classes go. I did not have many assignments for these classes, most of the work I did was on the Ansible assignment for this class. The assignment had us setting up a LAMP stack in Docker, but using only Ansible to set up the container. I managed to get this working after a bit of trial and error. It took me longer than expected, as I have never really used ansible before, but I eventually got the hang of it and got everything working. I actually enjoyed the lab, because I got some experience with this tool, and I am really starting to like it. Other than this, the only other assignment I was working on was for my CIT 496P project class. I have been setting up our AWS environment for our app, which consists of an RDS instance running Amazon Aurora, and an EC2 instance that has access to it. I have been working on getting EC2 to connect to the RDS instance, but have been running into issues. I will be investigating this soon and will try to come up with a fix. I have been enjoying this project a lot as well, because I want more experience with AWS, as it is a really big name in the industry today.

I wish I could say I did more this week for my field of study, but it has just been slow. Even in my extracurriculars, we have just been teaching High School students IT topics so they can do better in a competition, but nothing too in depth. I will hopefully have more to say next week, so check back next Friday.