Hello everyone, happy Friday! It's time for another blog with updates on my life in tech.

Most of my week has been spent at work, and doing my schoolwork after. For my classes, most of what the application of things we have learned before. For example, I completed the lab for this class where we have to set up a LAMP stack. I thought it was quite easy, especially considering the difficulty that I have had with Docker on Windows before. The difference was, this time I ran Docker on Arch Linux, which seemed to make the whole process a lot easier. The whole lab took me about an hour, with the only difficulty coming from some initial issue with Docker group permissions.

The other fun thing I did with schoolwork was for my CIT 425 Info Sys Security class. We had a lab where we had to set up a Kali Linux VM and a Metasploitable VM, and we had to use Kali to get a root shell on Metasploitable with exploits. The way I pulled it off was this: I found the subnet my Kali machine was on, and I pinged the broadcast IP (as instructed by the lab), although I only got a response from the NAT address of the network, which told me that the machines are probably set up not to reply to broadcast pings, which is strange for a metasploitable machine. After this, I ran an "nmap -T5 -A -v -PN x.x.x.x/x" in order to discover hosts. With that I was able to find my target, along with all of the services it was running. The lab wanted us to use Armitage, so I used that to scan it again, and then I started launching exploits. At first I attacked Samba and Postgresql, and ended up getting a user shell from posgres, which I used to poke around the machine some more. After that, I actually discovered that for some reason the machine was running a bindshell on port 1524, which made me facepalm a bit. From there I simply ran "nc -nv x.x.x.x 1524" to gain access to this shell. From there I changed the password of root and SSH'd in, because it's just better, and did some damage. Overall the lab was super engaging and I had a good time, despite it being a multi hour operation.

Outside of school, I have been working the same IT internship and chipping away at the projects we have there. We actually got a new ticketing system, so I have been getting used to that. For CCDC last Sunday, I worked on a team assignment that involved mapping out and taking inventory of a virtual network. Personally I liked it, as it helped me improve my network diagramming skills a bit more.

That's all I have for this week, check back next Friday for another blog post.
