Hello everyone, and welcome to my week 10 blog post for my Senior Design Class.

This week, I found a really interesting tool through one of my classes. I am in an information security class, and we had to form groups to present a cyber security tool to the class. Earlier in the semester, my groupmates and I choose a tool called Shodan.io. Shodan has been colloquially known as the "search engine for IOT devices", meaning that you can insert a simple query for anything from TVs, to router, to webcams, and it will search it's database for matches to that term. It's database consists of entries, whether that be IPs or hostnames who, when a banner grab was performed by Shodan, had service banners with information that matched you search term. For example you might search for "webcam" in the search bar, and it may grab an HTTP banner from a website that has a field that contains something like "Device Name: Front-Webcam". It will add this to your results, and also grab all the other information from the banner, such as geographic location, version, service information, etc.

Ultimately, this tool is geared towards a few things. Firstly, it is geared towards security researchers, who can use the Shodan search engine to access public facing systems, and see how they behave. It will also help them see if there are any glaring vulnerabilities that could be and issue for users if the system is public facing. Secondly, it could be used by the security team of a company to see if there are any undesirable systems facing the public. The useful part about the search engine, is that you can also scan IP addresses as well as entire subnets. So you could use it to scan a public facing subnet for your company to make sure that there is nothing important or vulnerable that is facing the outside world. Lastly, you can also use this as an everyday person to scan things on your own network to see if maybe one of your IOT devices is internet facing, with less than secure access controls.

The site is really useful, and it is also free (to an extent). All you have to do is go to shodan.io and start searching. Without an account, you can only make up to 10 searches a day before it cuts you off. With an account registered that number goes up to 50. Anymore than that, and you need to pay and have a good reason why you need that many results. If you haven't used this tool before, I recommend you check it out and play with it. I spent some time with it last night, and upon searching "webcam", I found an unsecured webcam in a Russian business that was just streaming to the internet, something they are likely not aware of. 

That is all I wanted to talk about this week, check in next friday for my next post.