Hello Everyone, welcome to my final blog post for my senior design class.

Today I wanted to talk about the importance of good application security. This is somewhat of a specific subfield in the frame of information security, but it is also a rather important one. Many companies, especially larger multinational companies, have some form of software or applications that they use for their business processes. That could be a software that is provided from a 3rd party, or one that they created themselves. Regardless of this, it is up to the company to create a secure codebase, that is used with good practices. Good examples of secure code would be to sanitize input into a web application. For example, if there was a field to input a name for a customer or a user, it would be wise to make sure that the person inputting the data is not allowed to put in special characters. This can be used to prevent attacks such as cross site scripting or SQL injection. Another good practice to use when developing an application, one that is probably the most important in fact, is failing gracefully. That is to say, that when the application runs into an error, it is able to handle it without compromising the security of the app. Handling errors improperly can lead to things such as stack overflows that compromise the code. This can lead to users having improper elevated access to other resources.

It also goes without saying that when implementing software that is not created by the company, it should be implemented in a secure manner. This can be done by making sure that only proper users have access to this software and resources, and that those users have the proper level of permissions to those resources. This is the part of appsec where the user is also responsible for their integrity.

Thank you for reading my blog posts, now it is on to graduation!