Hello Everyone, and welcome to my mid semester blog post for my senior design class. Spring break has just ended and I am ready to get back into my final stretch of my undergrad career!

This week I want to talk about the importance of the understanding of networking. The reason I choose to talk about this is that I feel no matter what aspect of IT or IT security you choose to go into, a good understanding of networking is not only expected, but completely necessary. From my experience competing in an infosec competition team here at CSUN, I have seen that a strong understanding of how computer networking worse is completely necessary to succeed in these aspects. When we look at modern IT systems, they are all networked in one way or another, whether that be in a very small local network, or hooked up to the very large Wide Area Network of the internet, they are ofter connected. To look at a specific machine as an operating system and not as a node on a network is an obsolete way of thinking.

As such, understanding how networking addressing (both physical and network layer) works is a necessary skill, as this is often how you will be referring to machines outside of DNS names. Also, when working in a field such as information security, one would be wise to understand that the network layer is often the first layer of defense for a company. If an admin can properly configure a firewall (host or network), a VPN, an IDS, or any other network level appliance for that matter, the company's security posture will be significantly improved. This is something that I have not only learned through the theory of my classes in school, but also in practice in jobs and internships that I have worked in the meantime. So, while networking as a whole might seem like a daunting learning objective for a surprisingly large portion of people, it is worth learning as it will greatly improve your stock value in your field.