Hello Everyone and welcome to this weeks post for my Senior Design Blog. Today I want to talk about EternalBlue and the WannaCry ransomware attacks.

I will start off by describing what exactly a Ransomware attack is in terms of effect. A ransomware attack is when a malicious program or worm infects a computer system, gains elevated privilege on this computer system, and then proceeds to encrypt the important files on that computer. The reason that this is called ransomware is because it will often display a screen announcing the attack and demanding a ransom, often in the form of a cryptocurrency. This is a common tactic as it display a sense of urgency to the victim, and is often irreparable.

WannaCry was a ransomware attack that occured in May of 2017, and targeted computers that were running various versions of Microsoft Windows. The attack itself was targeted towards older and unpatched systems, due to a vulnerability called EternalBlue that allowed privileged code execution on the target system, we will discuss the details of that soon. The attack was quite widespread, and would infect many computers around the globe, totalling more than 200,000 systems infected across about 150 different countries. The ransomware would demand BitCoin as payment, so as to keep the anonymity of the attacker safe. One of the biggest organizations hit by this attack was the National Health Service in the UK, with 70,000 systems hit which resulted in a large amount of difficulty in hostpitals and the increase in medical emergencies therein. The attacks only lasted a few days before Microsoft rolled out some emergency patches in order to stop this from happening, and also due to them finding a killswitch that would prevent further systems from spreading it.

The interesting part of these attacks is the vulnerability used to exploit the systems. WannaCry relied on a vulnerability called EternalBlue, which was developed by the NSA, interestingly enough. The vulnerability exploited deficiencies in Microsoft's SMBv1 protocol using malformed packets, that resulted in an attacker gaining RCE ability on the machines. The attack became controversial, because the NSA had not informed Microsoft, and were found to be doing this regularly with other vulnerabilities, stockpiling them for their own use. Goes to show you never know who to trust!

That is all for today, be sure to check back next week!