Hello all, welcome to my second blog post of this semester, in which I will be talking about the benefits of cloud IaaS.

Most companies, historically, have relied on on-premise data centers to provide their IT with the infrastructure to do its job. This has generally worked out well in the past, but it has always introduced certain limitations. For example, it is time consuming and costly at times do maintenance things when they go wrong, sometimes requiring physical reconfiguration and/or replacement of machines. It can also be inconvenient to inventory the machines in the data center, as you must go one by one (I have experienced this inconvenience before.) Further, it introduces costs such as power, warranty, machine price, and software. In today's IT world, there has been a change in the way data center work is done, and that is by using something called Infrastructure as a Service (Iaas).

IaaS is, in simple terms, taking your data center and moving it to cloud, using another companies physical resources. Examples of services that offer this are Amazon AWS, Microsoft Azure, Linode, etc... This changes things so much because IT staff no longer have to concern themselves with any physical limitations, such as space, power, inventory, or even price of device. This is all erased by simply clicking a button or entering a command to get a machine of a certain spec, such as in the case of EC2 with AWS. Furthermore, you can monitor and/or inventory your entire infrastructure from a single screen. Furthermore, it takes little to no time to deploy, as it all happens at the click of a button. Payment also becomes different, as many services offer a "pay per usage" model, where you will never have to pay for something you do not need, and if you do you can simply decommission it with the click of a button. The icing on the cake is that you can do things like load balancing with the click of a button as well, such as in the case of Elastic Load Balancers in AWS. It goes without saying the Iaas makes data center work and application deployment so much easier and cheaper, and can be expected to become much more widely used in the future. 
