Hello, welcome to this week's iteration of my senior design blog

Today I wanted to briefly talk about the difference between TCP and UDP. It might be something that is a very basic concept for IT, and a lot of us probably (hopefully) know about this already, but I feel that it is also an interesting topic to discuss! 

When we send information and data over the internet, we have two different types of protocols that we use to send this data (which are sent over a variety of sub-protocols on ports). These types of protocols include the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) and User Datagram Protocol (UDP). The TCP protocols all work using one common process, called a handshake. The three-way handshake involves and initial SYN call from the sender to inform the receiver that they are ready to send the data. After that, the receiver sends a SYN ACK call to signify that it is prepared to receive the data. Finally, the sender sends an ACK call to signify that it will now send the data. The usefulness of this process is that the data is all but guaranteed to reach it's destination, because the two sides have a syncronized data stream, the downside being that it can be a bit slower. Protocols that use this include SMTP, which is used for email communications.

UDP, on the other hand, simply sends the data across the wire without any handshakes involved. This datastream, as a result, can be considered much faster, and as such large transmissions can be sent over it quite quickly. The clear disadvantage here is that all the packets will not always reach their destination, as it is just a flood of data. Protocols that use this system include DNS, which simply does not need reliability, but rather efficiency.