Hello everyone (probably 1 person maximum), welcome to this weeks post for my senior design blog. This week I wanted to talk about the field of information security.

This might seem like a not-so-technical post, but sometimes the non-technical side of things hold greater value than some think. Information security is the field of IT that, namely, involves securing the information in a business, as well as the infrastructure, users, and processes that house this information. This field is actually quite broad, as there are many angles that come into play when securing the information stored in a company (such as networks, software, database, system, and user security). Despite it being a broad field that is split up into multiple sub-fields, it has become a very important one in recent years, due to a drastic year-over-year increase in cyber attacks. As such, knowing the field is something that is quite important for someone wishing to go into the field.

There is, of course, the technical aspect of the field which includes another broad range of things to know. These things include knowledge of networking and network processes, operating system knowledge (and the internals of), understanding databases and best practice, understanding IT services, and others. There are also more intricate aspects, such as incident response, digital forensics, penetration testing, and disaster recovery. The fact of the matter is that the field is quite involved, and one should be aware of this broad range of skill requirements before diving into the field (a jack of all trades is a master of none, but better than a master of one!). Finally, it would be wise to understand the business perspective of things as well. There are many reasons for this, such as understanding that the InfoSec budget is NOT infinite (and often quite low!). Also, one must consider the balance between security and usability. Nothing will ever be 100% secure, and will certainly never be 100% secure and usable at the same time, there must be a balance (and this is actually where risk assessment comes into play!)

For those that are interested in the field, these are all things that I would encourage you to look into, as it will help you understand how to get into it a bit better!