Hello and welcome to another instance of my senior design blog post

This week I wanted to go over another relatively simple concept in the realm of CIT and Networking, as I am running out of ideas on what to write and I am honestly just doing this for the grade! This week I will be going over the importance of firewalls, firewall management, and some other related network security concepts. A firewall is the front and foremost form of defense for a company with a traditional data center system. They serve to filter in regular traffic, and prevent any unauthorized traffic from coming in and out of the network. They all work mostly the same way (depending on what type of firewall it is, because there are actually quite a number of different types), by analyzing TCP and UDP packets and matching them to user defined rules, which help the system make a decision on whether or not to allow it through or block/drop it. This allows and effective security front for any system administration or security professional.

The nice thing about firewalls is that they can also be used for other things such as segmenting a network and allowing remote access to the network for authorized users. One can segment off another department or another building for a company and effectively give them their own network with their own rules, which is a nice thing to have when another department requires this due to possibly sensitive traffic on one or another. A firewall can often also have software that allows for remote tunneling into the network for authenticated users over the internet. This connection is often secured over a protocol such as SSL/TLS, and helps remote users access internal resources without having to be on the network physically. This has certainly become quite an important concept to understand in recent times, as a surge in remote work has occurred due to the pandemic. As such, it has also become more important to secure not only the VPNs but also the network itself. As such, firewalls are certainly something that a modern IT security professional should learn to manage proficiently. 