Hello Everyone, the spring semester has finally begun to pick up, and I am very excited to begin my senior design project and finish up my degree! Today for my blog I wanted to talk a bit about Privacy Hygiene, as I gave a lecture on it to our Layer 8 Cyber Security club on Monday.

Privacy Hygiene is the set of steps and measures that one takes to ensure that their Personally Identifiable Information (PII) is protected from the public. PII is any specific piece of information that can be attributed to a particular person (examples include full name, date of birth, social security number, and home address). The main goals of good privacy hygiene is to protect a person from allowing their PII to be exposed, leaving that person vulnerable to a myriad of threats, such as identity theft, social engineering campaigns, and even password dictionary attacks. Oftentimes, a hacker that is skilled in the art of Open Source Intelligence (OSINT) can gather this information, should it be publicly accessible due to poor privacy controls, and use it to carry out such attacks.

With that said, it would be wise to take a few steps to ensure your online presence is secure. For example, ensure that your PII on you social media profiles is either private, or only visible to your friends or followers. This helps ensure that your information is not publicly indexable, where a potential attacker could gather it from a simple web query. A good next step would be to ensure that your friends and followers are all people that you trust, especially if it is a personal profile. Further, make sure that you are wary about what info you put on your pages, even if it is just to friends, as it still can open you up to leaks. A good rule of thumb on the internet is "the less they know, the better."

These principles can also apply in real life, surprisingly. It is astounding the amount of people that willingly give out enough info about themselves in conversation to open them up to the same attacks mentioned previously. This can be seen either in the things they say, the things they own, or even in what they wear. One would not believe how much info a hacker can gain from a simple set of bumper stickers... But I digress, as this is not as serious as online and indexable information, but certainly food for thought!